- [Instructor] GitHub Flow is a workflow
that was published by GitHub
for teams that frequently ship their code to production.
The workflow is similar to Gitflow,
but there are some key differences
that make GitHub Flow unique and more streamlined.
To understand GitHub Flow,
the first thing that you need to know
is that main is the only long-lived branch.
So, in this workflow, we'll no longer use a develop branch
for storing our work towards the next release.
In GitHub Flow,
there's also no concept of a release or a hotfix branch
because releasing a code change or fixing a production issue
just becomes part of the regular development flow.
So in GitHub Flow,
there are less branches and less merging,
but it works because your next production release
is at most a few hours away.
Let's take a look at the workflow to see how it works
and highlight a few key points.
First, we have our main branch,
which is a long-lived branch that contains the code
that has recently been deployed to production
or at least it soon will be.
When a developer starts work on any new feature,
they pull the changes from the main branch
and then locally create a feature branch off of it
where they'll perform their work.
Here, they'll commit changes
as they make progress on the new feature.
Then, when they achieve a small milestone,
they'll push the code to the feature branch
on the team's shared repository.
This gives other developers
on the team visibility of their work
and protects the developer from losing any changes.
When the feature branch is ready to ship,
the developer pushes their final changes
and then creates a pull request.
Once the pull request is reviewed and approved,
it will merge their feature branch into the main branch.
The main branch is where the team stores code
that's ready to be released.
Ideally, this new change should be immediately deployed
by a CI/CD pipeline, that way,
other changes don't get intermixed into our release.
So that's the end-to-end workflow
and you can see how simple it is
for a developer to release new changes.
Let's move on to the next lesson
and we'll do a hands-on walkthrough of GitHub Flow.